README.md, before:

# AI SDK 5 Coding Agent Starter Project

Starter project for Vercel Ship "Building agents with the AI SDK". This coding agent is built with AI SDK 5, Vercel AI Gateway, and Vercel Sandbox. It can read and modify GitHub repositories.

## Setup

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel-labs%2Fship-25-agents-workshop-starter&project-name=vercel-ship-25-coding-agent&repository-name=vercel-ship-25-coding-agent&demo-title=Ship%202025%20Agents%20Workshop%20Companion%20Site&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Fship-25-agents-workshop.vercel.app%2Fdocs)

1. Install the Vercel CLI: `npm i -g vercel`
1. Deploy this repo with the button above.
1. Clone the new repo locally.
1. Link to Vercel project: `vercel link`
1. Pull environment variables: `vercel env pull` (may need team/project IDs too)
1. Install dependencies: `pnpm install`
1. Start dev server: `vercel dev`

## Environment Variables

- `VERCEL_OIDC_TOKEN` - For AI Gateway and Sandbox (this will be automatically added when you run `vercel dev`)
- `GITHUB_TOKEN` - GitHub personal access token

### GitHub Personal Access Token

To create a GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT):

1. Go to https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens
2. Click "Generate new token"
3. Give it a descriptive name
4. Set repository access to "All repositories"
5. Add the following repository permissions:
   - Issues: Read and write
   - Pull requests: Read and write
6. Click "Generate token"
7. Copy the token immediately (you won't be able to see it again)
8. Add it to your `.env.local` file as `GITHUB_TOKEN`

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! To contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-name`).
3. Make your changes and commit with clear messages (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`).
4. Push to your branch (`git push origin feature-name`).
5. Open a Pull Request describing your changes.

Please ensure your code adheres to the existing style and includes relevant tests and documentation.

## Usage

```bash
curl -X POST https://your-deployment.vercel.app/api/agent \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "prompt": "update readme to say hey were so back",
    "repoUrl": "https://github.com/nicoalbanese/ai-sdk-langgraph/"
  }'
```

Parameters:

- `prompt` - What you want the agent to do
- `repoUrl` - GitHub repository URL

Commit message:

Add standard Contributing section to README

README.md, after:

# AI SDK 5 Coding Agent Starter Project

Starter project for Vercel Ship "Building agents with the AI SDK". This coding agent is built with AI SDK 5, Vercel AI Gateway, and Vercel Sandbox. It can read and modify GitHub repositories.

## Setup

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel-labs%2Fship-25-agents-workshop-starter&project-name=vercel-ship-25-coding-agent&repository-name=vercel-ship-25-coding-agent&demo-title=Ship%202025%20Agents%20Workshop%20Companion%20Site&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Fship-25-agents-workshop.vercel.app%2Fdocs)

1. Install the Vercel CLI: `npm i -g vercel`
1. Deploy this repo with the button above.
1. Clone the new repo locally.
1. Link to Vercel project: `vercel link`
1. Pull environment variables: `vercel env pull` (may need team/project IDs too)
1. Install dependencies: `pnpm install`
1. Start dev server: `vercel dev`

## Environment Variables

- `VERCEL_OIDC_TOKEN` - For AI Gateway and Sandbox (this will be automatically added when you run `vercel dev`)
- `GITHUB_TOKEN` - GitHub personal access token

### GitHub Personal Access Token

To create a GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT):

1. Go to https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens
2. Click "Generate new token"
3. Give it a descriptive name
4. Set repository access to "All repositories"
5. Add the following repository permissions:
   - Issues: Read and write
   - Pull requests: Read and write
6. Click "Generate token"
7. Copy the token immediately (you won't be able to see it again)
8. Add it to your `.env.local` file as `GITHUB_TOKEN`

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! To contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-name`).
3. Make your changes and commit with clear messages (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`).
4. Push to your branch (`git push origin feature-name`).
5. Open a Pull Request describing your changes.

Please ensure your code adheres to the existing style and includes relevant tests and documentation.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! To contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-name`).
3. Make your changes and commit with clear messages (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`).
4. Push to your branch (`git push origin feature-name`).
5. Open a Pull Request describing your changes.

Please ensure your code adheres to the existing style and includes relevant tests and documentation.

## Usage

```bash
curl -X POST https://your-deployment.vercel.app/api/agent \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "prompt": "update readme to say hey were so back",
    "repoUrl": "https://github.com/nicoalbanese/ai-sdk-langgraph/"
  }'
```

Parameters:

- `prompt` - What you want the agent to do
- `repoUrl` - GitHub repository URL
